So we're just going to practice with IPv6.
And so we have our VPC here and we have our demo VPC.
And so to enable IPv6 report,
we need to add an IPv6 CIDR range.
So let's go right click on this.
And then we edit the CIDRs.
And then I'm going to add a new IPv6 CIDR range.
So now we can either use an Amazon-provided CIDR block
or a CIDR provided by me.
So I will use one generated by AWS
and then we'll have one that is advertised
as a group of eu-central-1.
So let's select the CIDR and here we go,
it is associated and here is my IPv6 CIDR.
So next, let me go to my subnets
and I will take my public subnet A, action,
and then I will edit the IPv6 CIDRs.
So as you can see,
I need to assign an IPv6 CIDR with my subnet.
So I will just use 00 just to be easy and click on save.
So here is an IPv6 CIDR with my subnets.
And then I can edit these subnet settings
to allow auto assign IPv6 address.
So I'll just do for one subnet
and I'll do it for all of them obviously,
but you can assign IPv6 addresses
for any of these subnets.
So next, if I go to my EC2 instances,
I can right click on this one, go to networking
and then manage IP addresses.
So currently the interface eth0
does not have an IPv6 address
but we can assign a new IPv6 address
which is going to be auto assigned.
And then I click on save, confirm.
And if you look at my BastionHost now,
it has an IPv6 address.
And so if we had an IPv6 address on our machine
and we edited the security group of this instance
to allow not just 0.0.0/0 which is the IPv4 range
but also we add the IPv6 range CIDR.
So if we go into the security group right here
and then edit the inbound rules, and then we add SSH
but this time from anywhere IPv6.
Then we can do an SSH into our BastionHost
directly using the IPv6 address
provided at our own computer, of course has an IPv6 address.
And IPv6 addresses are not necessarily
like common for your internet providers.
So there is a website called Test-IPv6
and it will run some tests.
And then it turns out that's if you have an IPv6,
it will appear right here.
And so you have IPv6 address
and you can access the EC2 instance.
But if you don't have an IPv6,
then don't worry, you cannot do anything about it.
You just need to wait for your internet provider
to be upgraded to the IPv6 scheme.
So this is cool because now I have one.
And so if I wanted to, I could connect EC2 instance
using IPv6. So the one last thing I want to show you
is around the route tables.
So if we have a look at the public route table, for example,
and look at the routes,
as you can see, there has been a rule added
into my route table which is saying that anything
that is using this CIDR of IPv6 should be local.
So that means that my EC2 instances,
if they have IPv6 addresses can communicate with each other
using their IPv6 address.
And if in the CIDR,
then all the traffic is going to remain local.
It's not gonna go through the public internet.
So that's it for IPv6.
I hope you liked it.
And also one last thing to notice, excuse me,
is that in your subnet, as we can see,
there are 248 IPv4 addresses left.
So even though I have many, many IPv6
available in my subnet,
if I go and use all the IPv4 addresses in my subnet,
then I would need to assign a new CIDR block to my subnet
to be able to keep on creating EC2 instances within it
because each EC2 instance
will no matter what have an IPv4 address.
So now that's it.
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.